README.md, before:

# Mac Book Pro 16" 2020 Setup

## mac

- Auslieferung mit macOS 10 (Cataloing) 10.15.3
- Upgrade auf macOS 11 (Big Sur)
- Upgrade auf macOS 12 (Monterey)
- Upgrade auf macOS 13 (Ventura)

## Software Installations

- System Update auf 10.15.4
- [Mozilla Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/de/firefox/download/thanks/)
- [Mozilla Firefox Developer Edition](https://www.mozilla.org/de/firefox/developer/) (english)
- [Google Chrome](https://www.google.com/intl/de/chrome/)
- [Google Chrome Canary](https://www.google.com/intl/de/chrome/canary/)
- Final Cut Pro X 10.4.8 _via AppStore_
- XCode 11.4.1 _via AppStore_
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com)
- [iTerm](https://www.iterm2.com)
- [Dropbox](https://www.dropbox.com/install#downloaded)
- [1Password](https://1password.com/downloads/mac/)
- [Google Earth Pro](https://www.google.de/earth/download/gep/agree.html)
- Tweetbot 3 for Twitter _via AppStore_
- Soulver _via AppStore_
- Tooth Fairy _via AppStore_
- Buy me a pie _via AppStore_
- Motion _via AppStore_
- MoneyControl _via AppStore_
- Deliveries _via AppStore_
- Weather Pro _via AppStore_
- Shazam _via AppStore_
- Feedly _via AppStore_
- [brew](https://brew.sh/)
- [IStatMenus](https://bjango.com/mac/istatmenus/)
- [Bartender](https://www.macbartender.com/)
- [Microsoft Office 365](https://www.office.com/)
- [Creative Cloud](https://www.adobe.com/ch_de/creativecloud.html)
  - Photoshop
  - Lightroom Classic
  - Bridge
- [SoundSource](https://rogueamoeba.com/soundsource/)
- [Sketch](https://www.sketch.com/get/)
- [Spotify](https://www.spotify.com/de/download/mac/)
- [Jetbrains Toolbox App](https://www.jetbrains.com/toolbox-app/)
- PHPStorm _via Jetbrains toolbox_
- PyCharm Community Edition _via Jetbrains toolbox_
- AppCode _via Jetbrains toolbox_
- [MoneyMoney](https://moneymoney-app.com/download/)
- [Arq 5 for Mac](https://www.arqbackup.com/download/)
- [MoneyMoney](https://moneymoney-app.com/download/)
- [Dash 4](https://frankfurt.kapeli.com/downloads/v4/Dash.zip)
- [moom](https://manytricks.com/download/moom)
- [oh my zsh](https://ohmyz.sh/)
- [Carbon Copy Cloner](https://bombich.com/download)
- [Sublime Text 3](https://www.sublimetext.com/3)
- [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/) _required by cobalt2-theme_
- [powerline] pip install --user powerline-status _required by cobalt2-theme_
- [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm)
- node _via nvm_
- [Google Backup and Sync](https://www.google.com/drive/download/)
- [Open Emu Experimental](https://openemu.org/)
- [3DConnexion 3DxWare](https://www.3dconnexion.de/service/drivers.html)
- Apple Developer _via AppStore_
- [Logic Pro X](http://apple.com) _via AppStore_
- [Reeder 4](https://reederapp.com/) _via Appstore_
- [Logitech Capture - Beta](https://www.logitech.com/de-de/product/capture)
- [Good Notes](https://www.goodnotes.com/features/) _via AppStore_
- [Raspberry Pi Imager](https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/)
- Bose Updater
- Bluetooth Explorer (from Additional Tools for XCode 11.4)
- etreCheck _via AppStore_
- [PDFtkServer](https://www.pdflabs.com/tools/pdftk-server/)
- Unity 2021.1.0b8 (beta)
- Visual Studio for Mac
- flutter 2.0.5 SDK
- [Rossmann Fotowelt Software](https://www.rossmann-fotowelt.de/fotosoftware-download)
- Zavala _via AppStore_
- [zoom](https://explore.zoom.us/de/products/meetings/)
- [Loupedeck 5.0.1](https://de.support.loupedeck.com/loupedeck-software-download)
- Kindle _via AppStore_
- [Turbo Boost Switcher Pro](http://tbswitcher.rugarciap.com/)
- [SpyderX Pro Software](https://spyderx.datacolor.com/de/activate/?pk_campaign=goto.datacolor.com&pk_kwd=/getspyderx)

## Treiber

- [Shuttle Pro v2](https://contourdesign.de/support/treiber/)
- [Canon EOS Utility for macOS](<https://www.canon.de/support/consumer_products/products/cameras/digital_slr/eos-80d.html?type=software&language=de&os=macos%2010.14%20(mojave)&softwaredescriptionid=tcm:83-1330031>)
- [Wacom CTH-490PK](https://www.wacom.com/en-us/support/product-support/drivers)
- [SB Command for Soundblaster X3](https://support.creative.com/Products/ProductDetails.aspx)
- Canon MB 5100 series komplettes Treiberpaket [https://www.canon.de/support/consumer_products/products/fax__multifunctionals/inkjet/maxify_mb_series/maxify_mb5150.html?type=download&language=&os=macos%2010.15%20(catalina)]

### Chrome Extensions

- [1Password](https://1password.com/downloads/mac/#browsers)
- [Privacy Badger](https://privacybadger.org/)
- Save to Pocket
- Pinboard

### Firefox Extensions

- [1Password](https://1password.com/browsers/firefox/)
- [Privacy Badger](https://privacybadger.org/)

### VS Code Extension

- Python
- ESLint
- Debugger for Chrome
- Prettier
- markdownlint
- Dart
- flutter
- Partial Diff
- [Cobalt2 Theme](https://github.com/wesbos/Cobalt2-iterm)
- GraphQL
- CodeMetrics
- LiveShare
- Angular Language Service
- Angular Schematics

### Brew

- youtube-dl
- wget
- ack
- tmux
- fortune
- tree
- tig
- ocrmypdf
- tesseract-lang
- Alfred _via brew cask_
- LibreOffice _via brew cask_
- VirtualBox _via brew cask_
- Blender _via brew cask_
- obs _via brew cask_
- mysql workbench _via brew cask_
- Skype _via brew cask_
- vlc _via brew cask_
- brave _via brew cask_
- iperf
- pandoc
- steam _via brew cask_
- unrar
- docker
- docker-machine
- docker-compose
- docker _via brew casks_
- mysql-client
- fping
- bat - a cat clone
- imageoptim _via brew cask_
- cyberduck _via brew cask_
- mdcat - Markdown viewer
- MediathekView _via brew cask_
- ruby
- meld _via brew cask_
- glow - Markdown viewer
- gfxcardstatus
- gh - Github CLI
- watch
- obs-virtual-cam
- fx
- geekbench
- runjs
- cloc
- chromium
- rsync
- unity-hub
- htop
- jq
- cocoapods
- media-info
- diff-pdf
- landrop
- postman
- adobe-acrobat-reader
- httpie
- electron-fiddle
- jc
- speedtest-cli
- arc
- pwgen
- [db-browser-for-sqlite](https://sqlitebrowser.org/)

### node packages (global)

- live-server
- ts-node
- typescript
- nodemon
- angular/cli
- create-react-app
- npkill

## Fonts

- Operator Mono
- SF Compact
- SF UI
- Source Code Pro
- [JetBrains Mono](https://www.jetbrains.com/lp/mono/#how-to-install)
- [Powerline Fonts](https://github.com/powerline/fonts)

## Photoshop Plugins

- [Webp](https://github.com/webmproject/WebPShop#installation)

## Lightroom Plugin

- [Teekesselchen](http://www.bungenstock.de/teekesselchen/)

Commit message:

add the pip chrome extension

README.md, after:

# Mac Book Pro 16" 2020 Setup

## mac

- Auslieferung mit macOS 10 (Cataloing) 10.15.3
- Upgrade auf macOS 11 (Big Sur)
- Upgrade auf macOS 12 (Monterey)
- Upgrade auf macOS 13 (Ventura)

## Software Installations

- System Update auf 10.15.4
- [Mozilla Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/de/firefox/download/thanks/)
- [Mozilla Firefox Developer Edition](https://www.mozilla.org/de/firefox/developer/) (english)
- [Google Chrome](https://www.google.com/intl/de/chrome/)
- [Google Chrome Canary](https://www.google.com/intl/de/chrome/canary/)
- Final Cut Pro X 10.4.8 _via AppStore_
- XCode 11.4.1 _via AppStore_
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com)
- [iTerm](https://www.iterm2.com)
- [Dropbox](https://www.dropbox.com/install#downloaded)
- [1Password](https://1password.com/downloads/mac/)
- [Google Earth Pro](https://www.google.de/earth/download/gep/agree.html)
- Tweetbot 3 for Twitter _via AppStore_
- Soulver _via AppStore_
- Tooth Fairy _via AppStore_
- Buy me a pie _via AppStore_
- Motion _via AppStore_
- MoneyControl _via AppStore_
- Deliveries _via AppStore_
- Weather Pro _via AppStore_
- Shazam _via AppStore_
- Feedly _via AppStore_
- [brew](https://brew.sh/)
- [IStatMenus](https://bjango.com/mac/istatmenus/)
- [Bartender](https://www.macbartender.com/)
- [Microsoft Office 365](https://www.office.com/)
- [Creative Cloud](https://www.adobe.com/ch_de/creativecloud.html)
  - Photoshop
  - Lightroom Classic
  - Bridge
- [SoundSource](https://rogueamoeba.com/soundsource/)
- [Sketch](https://www.sketch.com/get/)
- [Spotify](https://www.spotify.com/de/download/mac/)
- [Jetbrains Toolbox App](https://www.jetbrains.com/toolbox-app/)
- PHPStorm _via Jetbrains toolbox_
- PyCharm Community Edition _via Jetbrains toolbox_
- AppCode _via Jetbrains toolbox_
- [MoneyMoney](https://moneymoney-app.com/download/)
- [Arq 5 for Mac](https://www.arqbackup.com/download/)
- [MoneyMoney](https://moneymoney-app.com/download/)
- [Dash 4](https://frankfurt.kapeli.com/downloads/v4/Dash.zip)
- [moom](https://manytricks.com/download/moom)
- [oh my zsh](https://ohmyz.sh/)
- [Carbon Copy Cloner](https://bombich.com/download)
- [Sublime Text 3](https://www.sublimetext.com/3)
- [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/) _required by cobalt2-theme_
- [powerline] pip install --user powerline-status _required by cobalt2-theme_
- [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm)
- node _via nvm_
- [Google Backup and Sync](https://www.google.com/drive/download/)
- [Open Emu Experimental](https://openemu.org/)
- [3DConnexion 3DxWare](https://www.3dconnexion.de/service/drivers.html)
- Apple Developer _via AppStore_
- [Logic Pro X](http://apple.com) _via AppStore_
- [Reeder 4](https://reederapp.com/) _via Appstore_
- [Logitech Capture - Beta](https://www.logitech.com/de-de/product/capture)
- [Good Notes](https://www.goodnotes.com/features/) _via AppStore_
- [Raspberry Pi Imager](https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/)
- Bose Updater
- Bluetooth Explorer (from Additional Tools for XCode 11.4)
- etreCheck _via AppStore_
- [PDFtkServer](https://www.pdflabs.com/tools/pdftk-server/)
- Unity 2021.1.0b8 (beta)
- Visual Studio for Mac
- flutter 2.0.5 SDK
- [Rossmann Fotowelt Software](https://www.rossmann-fotowelt.de/fotosoftware-download)
- Zavala _via AppStore_
- [zoom](https://explore.zoom.us/de/products/meetings/)
- [Loupedeck 5.0.1](https://de.support.loupedeck.com/loupedeck-software-download)
- Kindle _via AppStore_
- [Turbo Boost Switcher Pro](http://tbswitcher.rugarciap.com/)
- [SpyderX Pro Software](https://spyderx.datacolor.com/de/activate/?pk_campaign=goto.datacolor.com&pk_kwd=/getspyderx)

## Treiber

- [Shuttle Pro v2](https://contourdesign.de/support/treiber/)
- [Canon EOS Utility for macOS](<https://www.canon.de/support/consumer_products/products/cameras/digital_slr/eos-80d.html?type=software&language=de&os=macos%2010.14%20(mojave)&softwaredescriptionid=tcm:83-1330031>)
- [Wacom CTH-490PK](https://www.wacom.com/en-us/support/product-support/drivers)
- [SB Command for Soundblaster X3](https://support.creative.com/Products/ProductDetails.aspx)
- Canon MB 5100 series komplettes Treiberpaket [https://www.canon.de/support/consumer_products/products/fax__multifunctionals/inkjet/maxify_mb_series/maxify_mb5150.html?type=download&language=&os=macos%2010.15%20(catalina)]

### Chrome Extensions

- [1Password](https://1password.com/downloads/mac/#browsers)
- [Privacy Badger](https://privacybadger.org/)
- [Save to Pocket](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/save-to-pocket/niloccemoadcdkdjlinkgdfekeahmflj)
- Pinboard
- [Picture-in-Picture Extension (by Google)](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/picture-in-picture-extens/hkgfoiooedgoejojocmhlaklaeopbecg)

### Firefox Extensions

- [1Password](https://1password.com/browsers/firefox/)
- [Privacy Badger](https://privacybadger.org/)

### VS Code Extension

- Python
- ESLint
- Debugger for Chrome
- Prettier
- markdownlint
- Dart
- flutter
- Partial Diff
- [Cobalt2 Theme](https://github.com/wesbos/Cobalt2-iterm)
- GraphQL
- CodeMetrics
- LiveShare
- Angular Language Service
- Angular Schematics

### Brew

- youtube-dl
- wget
- ack
- tmux
- fortune
- tree
- tig
- ocrmypdf
- tesseract-lang
- Alfred _via brew cask_
- LibreOffice _via brew cask_
- VirtualBox _via brew cask_
- Blender _via brew cask_
- obs _via brew cask_
- mysql workbench _via brew cask_
- Skype _via brew cask_
- vlc _via brew cask_
- brave _via brew cask_
- iperf
- pandoc
- steam _via brew cask_
- unrar
- docker
- docker-machine
- docker-compose
- docker _via brew casks_
- mysql-client
- fping
- bat - a cat clone
- imageoptim _via brew cask_
- cyberduck _via brew cask_
- mdcat - Markdown viewer
- MediathekView _via brew cask_
- ruby
- meld _via brew cask_
- glow - Markdown viewer
- gfxcardstatus
- gh - Github CLI
- watch
- obs-virtual-cam
- fx
- geekbench
- runjs
- cloc
- chromium
- rsync
- unity-hub
- htop
- jq
- cocoapods
- media-info
- diff-pdf
- landrop
- postman
- adobe-acrobat-reader
- httpie
- electron-fiddle
- jc
- speedtest-cli
- arc
- pwgen
- [db-browser-for-sqlite](https://sqlitebrowser.org/)

### node packages (global)

- live-server
- ts-node
- typescript
- nodemon
- angular/cli
- create-react-app
- npkill

## Fonts

- Operator Mono
- SF Compact
- SF UI
- Source Code Pro
- [JetBrains Mono](https://www.jetbrains.com/lp/mono/#how-to-install)
- [Powerline Fonts](https://github.com/powerline/fonts)

## Photoshop Plugins

- [Webp](https://github.com/webmproject/WebPShop#installation)

## Lightroom Plugin

- [Teekesselchen](http://www.bungenstock.de/teekesselchen/)
